---
layout: post
date: November 30, 2016
title: Valuable Habits
---


&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One lessson I have learned on my path to a CS degree is that implementing valuable programming habits will not only help to alleviate your troubleshooting process in the short term but benefit your education and career in the long term.


1. Give your variables explicative names so your code is as apparent and straightforward as possible. 
2. When you start a program, write enough skeleton code to execute the program. If you debug consistently not only will bugs be easier to comprehend, but you'll end up saving yourself a lot of time. 
3. Insert print statements as you go. Many times I have found myself debuging erroneous code by adding numerous print statements struggling to locate an issue. 
4. Wrap code that may cause an error in a Try Catch statement can save you time and stress in the long run when you're trying to understand an ugly bug that doesn't make any sense.
5. Set up your database as a postgres user and, invoking the Principle of Least Privilege, assign to a user, who is not the root and is defined in connectToDB(), the lowest level of privilege required. This practice is similar to compartmentalization and encapsulation. In order to connect a user to a PostgreSQL database, you must provide the name and password of the user in your server.py file in the connectToDB() function. For the sake of security and stability, it is important not to provide a root user's password this way. Taking the time to import the SQL file as the postgres user and formulating the needed Grant statements.



