---
layout: post
date: December 12, 2016
title: Winter Simulation
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Instead of a finals week filled with textbooks, late nights, and caffiene, this year Dr. Davies and I opted for rush hour 95 traffic, early mornings, and most importantly caffiene. I had the pleasure of postponing my studying for this year's Winter Simulation conference which was in Arlington, VA. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_Many Models Thinking_, the initial lecture to kick off the conference, was presented by one of the conference's keynote speakers, Scott Page. Sitting among at least 300 souls with a passion for CSS, I was enlightened with a new outlook to the famous quote by George Box, _"All models are wrong, but some are useful."_ Page's idea was simple: since the world is so complex, we need a lot of models to represent it. The purpose of modelling is to get the logic right. He proposes that in order to truly model a real world phenomenon, you must construct many models to analyze each and every angle. Once you've compiled a list, the difficult task remains: Model Dialogue. How do you compare your options and make an educated decision? In other words, how can you translate methodolgy behind each of the alternatives in order to place them on a level playing field?
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Scott's answered these questions with a quote: "I learned to make my mind large, as the universe is large, so there is no room for paradox." The reality is that consensus would be hard to reach. However, he believe that by understanding all our options for modeling, we can use our collective knowledge to interpret the best solution available for our own model.

